# IUN Solar Analysis 🌞

A toolkit for visualizing, cleaning, and working with solar irradiance data taken at Indiana University Northwest (IUN). This data was primarily captured through a handheld sensor that connected to the Pasco's [SPARKvue](https://www.pasco.com/products/software/sparkvue) app.

## 🗂️ Scripts Overview

### 📊 Visualization & Processing
These scripts focus on plotting, charting, and summarizing data visually.
* `location_difference.R`: Illustrates solar reading differenes seen in low, medium, and high shade areas.
* `daily_curve.R`: Displays changes in irradiance averaged over a 24 hour period.
* `tilt_and_weather.R`: Examines effect of daily conditions and sensor orientation on measurements.

### ⛅ Data Creation
These scripts connect with outside data sources adding additional information on a measure by measure basis.
* `data_enrichement.py`: By default, adds cloud coverage & averaged solar irradiation measures to all time enteries.
* `metadata.py`: Extracts metadata from SPARKvue screenshots. Utilize this in combination with vision-ai to automate data recording.
* `vision-ai.py`: Utilizes an open source vision model to extract solar irradiance and location informatin from SPARKvue screenshots.

### 📅 Input Formatting
* `location_details.csv` - Utilize this spreadsheet to store location data & qualitative descriptions of solar coverage.

| Column Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Location |Short hand name for point at which measurement occurs. |
| Latitude |Coordinate of measurement |
| Longitude |Coordinate of measurement |
|Category| Level of shade for the location. (Full Sun, Partial Shade, Full Shade) |

* `daily_data.csv` - Use this spreadsheet to store qualitative measures such as Weather for each _session_ of recording data. Before scripts for automating retrieval of altitude, azemuthal, and cloud coverage were created, these were manually recorded and stored here.

| Column Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Date | MM/dd/YYY Ex: 05/26/025 |
| Time | HH:mm Ex: 14:30 (Military Time) |
| Azemuthal | The angle of the sun across the sky. |
| Solar_Altitude | The angle of the sun in the sky. |
| Cloud_Coverage | Percentage of the sky obscured by clouds. Retrieved from Visual Crossing. |
| Weather | Qualitative description of sky (Clear skies, Partially Cloudy, Overcast, Night) |

* `hourly_data.csv` - Historic spreadsheet used to record measurements before automation was added.

| Column Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Date | MM/dd/YYY Ex: 05/26/025 |
| Time | HH:mm Ex: 14:30 (Military Time) |
| Location | Short hand name for point at which measurement occurs. |
| Angled | Solar irradiance at your latitude's optimal orientation |
| Flat | Solar irradiance at 0° |

## 📃 Process Overview
This codebase was created to handle data generated by ______, a hand held sensor for solar irradiance. This was collected in conjuction with Pasco's [SPARKvue](https://www.pasco.com/products/software/sparkvue) app.

Data is collected in two hour intervals at several locations categorized as Full Sun, Full ShadePartial Shade, or Full Shade. As commuting takes time, the code here will generalize each measurement to the closest two hour mark. In addition two measurements are taken at each location: one in which the sensor is at 42° and another at 0°. This was to investigate the effect of title on solar energy collected. This [angle](https://sunsolartilt.com/pages/calculator) should be changed based on your location.

Additionally, the setup used here had no way to automate the detection of tilt. Therefore each location has the titled measure recorded first followed by the flat measure.
